


GROUPS(7WN)		     WordNet		      GROUPS(7WN)



NAME
     groups - discussion of WordNet search code	to group  similar
     senses

DESCRIPTION
     Standard dictionaries commonly group  related  senses  of	a
     word  with	 expressions such as "the act, process,	or result
     of	X", or else they  enter	 the  act,  process,  and  result
     senses as subheads	under a	single sense number. Unlike stan-
     dard dictionaries,	the default display  for  WordNet  is  to
     show  senses  in  order of	frequency of use in written text.
     The  grouped  search  displays  similar  senses  of  a  word
     together.	 At  the  present  time,  only	nouns  have  been
     grouped.

     Three relations are used to  group	 noun  senses.	 We  call
     these relations cousins, sisters, and twins.

     The cousin	groupings exploit the hyponym relation	in  Word-
     Net.   WordNet nodes whose	hyponyms bear a	specific relation
     to	each other have	been identified.  For example,	the  noun
     crab  refers to an	animal,	as well	as the edible meat of the
     animal. The same relation,	that of	an animal and its  edible
     meat,  holds  for	lobster,  chicken  and all other matching
     strings under the food and	animal	nodes.	In  WordNet  1.5,
     relations for 105 node top	pairs have been	identified.

     Another class of related senses in	 the  noun  hierarchy  is
     called  sisters.  Sisters are matching strings that are both
     the immediate hyponyms of the same	superordinate. For  exam-
     ple,  the noun flounder can refer to several kinds	of flatf-
     ish.

     The third kind of related sense is	called twins.  These  are
     synsets that have at least	three words in common.	For exam-
     ple, one sense of duo is a	musical	group and  another  is	a
     musical composition.  Both	synsets	contain	duet, duette, and
     duo.

     Transitivity is used to combine groups of overlapping senses
     resulting in the largest sense groups possible.

  Exception Lists
     There are,	of course, exceptions to all  of  the  relations.
     For  example,  the	noun coral is in both the animal and food
     hierarchies, but does not bear the	relation  of  "an  animal
     and  its  edible  meat".  Each candidate for cousin and twin
     groupings has been	checked	by  hand  and,	in  the	 case  of
     exceptions, added to the exception	list.

BUGS
     Grouping of similar senses	 is  still  in	the  experimental



WordNet		    Last change: 8 March 1995			1






GROUPS(7WN)		     WordNet		      GROUPS(7WN)



     stage and is being	evaluated.

     Coverage of cousins is incomplete.

     Groups of senses are determined at	 run-time  -  not  stati-
     cally.   Depending	 on your computer platform and the number
     of	senses involved, this search may run VERY slowly.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
     WNSEARCHDIR	 Directory in which the	WordNet	 database
			 has  been  installed.	 Unix  default is
			 /usr/local/wordnet/dict, PC  default  is
			 c:\wordnet\dict,  Macintosh  default  is
			 :Database.

FILES
     $WNSEARCHDIR/cousin.tops		pairs of top nodes

     $WNSEARCHDIR/cousin.tps		pairs of top nodes (PC)

     $WNSEARCHDIR/cousin.exc		senses that should not be
					grouped

SEE ALSO
     wn(1WN), wnintro(3WN), wndb(5WN), wngloss(7WN).






























WordNet		    Last change: 8 March 1995			2



