





























































WordNet								1






LEXNAMES(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	    LEXNAMES(5WN)



NAME
     List of WordNet lexicographer file	names and numbers

DESCRIPTION
     WordNet synsets are organized into	forty-five  lexicographer
     files  based  on  part  of	 speech	 and  logical  groupings.
     grind(1WN)	processes these	files, producing a database suit-
     able for use with the WordNet search and interface	code, and
     other applications.

     Each lexicographer	file has  a  corresponding  file  number.
     File  numbers  are	 encoded  in various files in the WordNet
     system as an efficient method of indicating a  lexicographer
     file  name. The file lexnames lists the mapping between file
     names and numbers,	and can	be used	by programs or end  users
     to	correlate the two.

  File Format
     Each line in lexnames contains 3 tab separated fields.   The
     first  field is the two digit decimal file	number,	beginning
     with 00.  The second field	is the name of the  lexicographer
     file,  such  as  adj.all.	 The  third  field  is an integer
     representing the syntactic	category  for  the  file,  listed
     below.   This is merely a shortcut	for programs and scripts,
     since the syntactic category is also part of the  lexicogra-
     pher file's name.

  Syntactic Category
     The part of speech	is encoded as follows:
	  1    NOUN
	  2    VERB
	  3    ADJECTIVE
	  4    ADVERB

  Lexicographer	Files
     The names of the lexicographer files and their corresponding
     file  numbers  are	listed below, along with a brief descrip-
     tion each file's contents.	 The file names	are  also  listed
     in	 each of the "data" files in the WordNet database follow-
     ing the copyright notice, in file number order.

File Number   Name		   Contents
8
    00	      adj.all		   all adjective clusters
    01	      adj.pert		   relational adjectives (pertainyms)
    02	      adv.all		   all adverbs
    03	      noun.Tops		   unique beginners for	nouns
    04	      noun.act		   nouns denoting acts or actions
    05	      noun.animal	   nouns denoting animals
    06	      noun.artifact	   nouns denoting man-made objects
    07	      noun.attribute	   nouns denoting attributes of	people and objects
    08	      noun.body		   nouns denoting body parts
    09	      noun.cognition	   nouns denoting cognitive processes and contents



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			1


9


LEXNAMES(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	    LEXNAMES(5WN)



    10	      noun.communication   nouns denoting communicative	processes and contents
    11	      noun.event	   nouns denoting natural events
    12	      noun.feeling	   nouns denoting feelings and emotions
    13	      noun.food		   nouns denoting foods	and drinks
    14	      noun.group	   nouns denoting groupings of people or objects
    15	      noun.location	   nouns denoting spatial position
    16	      noun.motive	   nouns denoting goals
    17	      noun.object	   nouns denoting natural objects (not man-made)
    18	      noun.person	   nouns denoting people
    19	      noun.phenomenon	   nouns denoting natural phenomena
    20	      noun.plant	   nouns denoting plants
    21	      noun.possession	   nouns denoting possession and transfer of possession
    22	      noun.process	   nouns denoting natural processes
    23	      noun.quantity	   nouns denoting quantities and units of measure
    24	      noun.relation	   nouns denoting relations between people or things or	ideas
    25	      noun.shape	   nouns denoting two and three	dimensional shapes
    26	      noun.state	   nouns denoting stable states	of affairs
    27	      noun.substance	   nouns denoting substances
    28	      noun.time		   nouns denoting time and temporal relations
    29	      verb.body		   verbs of grooming, dressing and bodily care
    30	      verb.change	   verbs of size, temperature change, intensifying, etc.
    31	      verb.cognition	   verbs of thinking, judging, analyzing, doubting
    32	      verb.communication   verbs of telling, asking, ordering, singing
    33	      verb.competition	   verbs of fighting, athletic activities
    34	      verb.consumption	   verbs of eating and drinking
    35	      verb.contact	   verbs of touching, hitting, tying, digging
    36	      verb.creation	   verbs of sewing, baking, painting, performing
    37	      verb.emotion	   verbs of feeling
    38	      verb.motion	   verbs of walking, flying, swimming
    39	      verb.perception	   verbs of seeing, hearing, feeling
    40	      verb.possession	   verbs of buying, selling, owning
    41	      verb.social	   verbs of political and social activities and	events
    42	      verb.stative	   verbs of being, having, spatial relations
    43	      verb.weather	   verbs of raining, snowing, thawing, thundering
    44	      adj.ppl		   participial adjectives

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
     WNSEARCHDIR	 Directory in which the	WordNet	 database
			 has  been  installed.	 Unix  default is
			 /usr/local/wordnet/dict, PC  default  is
			 c:\wordnet\dict,  Macintosh  default  is
			 :Database.

FILES
     $WNSEARCHDIR/lexnames		list   of   lexicographer
					file names and numbers

SEE ALSO
     wndb(5WN),	wninput(5WN), wngloss(7WN).






WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			2



