


WN(1WN)		   WordNet Interface Commands		  WN(1WN)



NAME
     wn	- command line interface to WordNet lexical database

SYNOPSIS
     wn	[ searchstr ] [	-h] [ -g ] [ -a	]  [  -l  ]  [	-n#  ]	[
     searchoption... ]

DESCRIPTION
     Word forms	in WordNet  are	 represented  in  their	 familiar
     orthography;  word	 meanings are represented by synonym sets
     (synset) -	lists of synonymous word forms	that  are  inter-
     changeable	 in  some  context.   Two  kinds of relations are
     recognized: lexical and semantic.	 Lexical  relations  hold
     between  word  forms;  semantic  relations	hold between word
     meanings.

     Each synset consists of a list of synonymous words	or collo-
     cations  (eg.  "fountain pen", "take in"),	and pointers that
     describe the relations between this synset	 and  other  syn-
     sets.   These  relations  include	(but  are not limited to)
     hypernymy/hyponymy,      antonymy,	     entailment	      and
     meronymy/holonymy.	 A word	or collocation may appear in more
     than one synset, and in more than one part	of  speech.   The
     words  in	a synset are logically grouped such that they are
     interchangeable in	some context.  Adjectives  are	organized
     into clusters containing head synsets and satellite synsets.
     Adverbs generally point to	the adjectives	from  which  they
     are derived.

     The WordNet database is created from a set	of  lexicographer
     files  that  organize  synsets into different files based on
     part of speech and	logical	groupings.  See	wninput(5WN)  for
     a	complete description of	the lexicographer file format and
     a list of pointer types.

     wn	provides a command line	interface to  the  WordNet  data-
     base, allowing synsets and	relations to be	displayed as for-
     matted text.  For each word,  different  searches	are  pro-
     vided,  based  on	syntactic  category  and  pointer  types.
     Although only base	forms of  words	 are  usually  stored  in
     WordNet,  you may search for inflected forms.  A morphologi-
     cal process is applied to the search string  to  generate	a
     form that is present in WordNet.

     All of the	interfaces to the WordNet database use	a  common
     library of	search and morphology code.  See wnintro(3WN) for
     an	overview of the	WordNet	library.

     See wngloss(7WN) for a glossary of	WordNet	terminology and	a
     discussion	 of  the database's content and	logical	organiza-
     tion.




WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			1






WN(1WN)		   WordNet Interface Commands		  WN(1WN)



OPTIONS
     Note that the last	letter of searchoption	denotes	the  part
     of	 speech	 that  the  search applies to: n for nouns, v for
     verbs,  a	for  adjectives,  and  r  for  adverbs.	 Multiple
     searches  may be done for searchstr with a	single command by
     specifying	all the	appropriate search options.


     -h		    Print help text before search results.

     -g		    Display textual glosses associated with  syn-
		    sets.

     -a		    Display lexicographer file information

     -l		    Display the	WordNet	copyright notice, version
		    number, and	license.

     -n#	    Perform search on sense number # only.

     -syns(n | v | a | r)
		    Display synonyms and immediate  hypernyms  of
		    synsets  containing	 searchstr.   Synsets are
		    ordered by frequency of use.  For adjectives,
		    if	 searchstr  is	in  a  head  synset,  the
		    cluster's satellite	synsets	are displayed  in
		    place  of  hypernyms.  If  searchstr  is in	a
		    satellite synset, its  head	 synset	 is  also
		    displayed.

     -simsn	    Display noun synonyms and immediate	hypernyms
		    of synsets containing searchstr.  Synsets are
		    grouped by similarity of meaning.

     -ants(n | v | a | r)
		    Display  synsets   containing   antonyms   of
		    searchstr.	 For  adjectives, if searchstr is
		    in a head  synset,	searchstr  has	a  direct
		    antonym.   The  head  synset  for  the direct
		    antonym is displayed along	with  the  direct
		    antonym's satellite	synsets.  If searchstr is
		    in	a  satellite  synset,  searchstr  has  an
		    indirect  antonym  via the head synset, which
		    is displayed.

     -faml(n | v | a | r)
		    Display familiarity	and polysemy  information
		    for	searchstr.

     -hype(n | v)   Recursively	display	hypernym  (superordinate)
		    tree  for  searchstr  (searchstr IS	A KIND OF
		     relation).



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			2






WN(1WN)		   WordNet Interface Commands		  WN(1WN)



     -hypo(n | v)   Display immediate hyponyms (subordinates) for
		    searchstr ( IS	A KIND OF searchstr rela-
		    tion).

     -tree(n | v)   Display  hyponym   (subordinate)   tree   for
		    searchstr.	 This  is a recursive search that
		    finds the hyponyms of each hyponym.

     -coor(n | v)   Display   the   coordinates	  (sisters)    of
		    searchstr.	 This search prints the	immediate
		    hypernym  for  each	 synset	  that	 contains
		    searchstr  and the hypernym's immediate hypo-
		    nyms.

     -subsn	    Display substance meronyms of searchstr  (HAS
		    SUBSTANCE relation).

     -partn	    Display part meronyms of searchstr (HAS  PART
		    relation).

     -membn	    Display member  meronyms  of  searchstr  (HAS
		    MEMBER relation).

     -meron	    Display all	meronyms of searchstr (HAS  PART,
		    HAS	MEMBER,	HAS SUBSTANCE relations).

     -hmern	    Display meronyms for searchstr tree.  This is
		    a  recursive search	that prints all	the mero-
		    nyms of searchstr and all of its hypernyms.

     -sprtn	    Display part of holonyms of	 searchstr  (PART
		    OF relation).

     -smemn	    Display  member  of	 holonyms  of	searchstr
		    (MEMBER OF relation).

     -ssubn	    Display substance of  holonyms  of	searchstr
		    (SUBSTANCE OF relation).

     -holon	    Display all	holonyms of searchstr  (PART  OF,
		    MEMBER OF, SUBSTANCE OF relations).

     -hholn	    Display holonyms for searchstr tree.  This is
		    a  recursive search	that prints all	the holo-
		    nyms of searchstr and all of  each	holonym's
		    holonyms.

     -entav	    Display entailment relations of searchstr.

     -framv	    Display applicable verb sentence  frames  for
		    searchstr.




WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			3






WN(1WN)		   WordNet Interface Commands		  WN(1WN)



     -causv	    Display cause to relations of searchstr.

      -pert(a |	r)  Display pertainyms of searchstr.

      -attr(n |	a)  Display adjective values for noun  attribute,
		    or noun attributes of adjective values.

OUTPUT
     The output	of a search is written to  the	standard  output.
     The  output  consists  a  one line	description of the search
     type, followed by the search results.  Each sense is  output
     as	 a sense number	followed by a line with	a synset contain-
     ing searchstr, followed by	the search results.  Each line of
     search  output  is	preceded by a marker (usually =>), then	a
     synset.  If a search traverses more than one  level  of  the
     tree,   then   successive	 lines	are  indented  by  spaces
     corresponding to its level	in the hierarchy.   When  the  -g
     option   is  specified,  synset  glosses  are  displayed  in
     parentheses at the	end of each synset.

     Senses are	generally ordered from most to	least  frequently
     used,  with  the  most common sense numbered 1.  Senses that
     have occurred in corpora that have	been semantically  tagged
     determine the frequency of	the senses.  Senses that have not
     occurred are presented in haphazard order.	 At this time, no
     indication	 is  given as to which sense numbers are based on
     semantic tag frequency counts and which are haphazard.

     Noun senses can be	grouped	by similarity of meaning,  rather
     than  by frequency	of use.	 With this option all senses that
     are close in meaning are displayed	together, with a line  of
     dashes indicating the end of a group.  See	groups(7WN) for	a
     discussion	how senses are grouped.

     If	a search cannot	be performed on	senses of searchstr,  the
     search results are	headed by a string of the form:
	  X of Y senses	of searchstr

     When "Sentence frames for verb " is selected,	verb sen-
     tence  frames  that are acceptable	for all	words in a synset
     are preceded by the marker	*>.  If	a frame	is acceptable for
     searchstr only, it	is preceded by the marker =>.

     Search results for	adjectives are	slightly  different  from
     those  for	 other	parts  of  speech.   When an adjective is
     printed, its direct antonym, if it	has one, is also  printed
     in	 parentheses.  When searchstr is in a head synset, all of
     the head synset's satellites are also displayed.  The  posi-
     tion  of  an  adjective  in relation to the noun may be res-
     tricted to	the prenominal,	postnominal or predicative  posi-
     tion.   Where  present,  these  restrictions  are	noted  in
     parentheses.



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			4






WN(1WN)		   WordNet Interface Commands		  WN(1WN)



     When an adjective is a participle	of  a  verb,  the  output
     indicates the verb	and displays its synset.

     When an adverb is derived from an	adjective,  the	 specific
     adjectival	sense on which it is based is indicated.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
     WNSEARCHDIR	 Directory in which the	WordNet	 database
			 has  been  installed.	 Unix  default is
			 /usr/local/wordnet/dict, PC  default  is
			 c:\wordnet\dict.

FILES
     $WNSEARCHDIR/index.*		database   index    files
					(Unix)

     $WNSEARCHDIR\*.idx			database index files (PC)

     $WNSEARCHDIR/data.*		database    data    files
					(Unix)

     $WNSEARCHDIR\*.dat			database data files (PC)

     $WNSEARCHDIR/*.exc			morphology	exception
					lists (Unix)

     $WNSEARCHDIR\*.exc			morphology	exception
					lists (PC)

     $WNSEARCHDIR/cousin.*		files used to group simi-
					lar senses (Unix)

     $WNSEARCHDIR\cousin.*		files used to group simi-
					lar senses (PC)

     $WNSEARCHDIR/verb.Framestext	text  of  verb	 sentence
					frames (Unix)

     $WNSEARCHDIR\vframes.txt		text  of  verb	 sentence
					frames (PC)

SEE ALSO
     wnintro(3WN),  lexnames(5WN),  senseindex(5WN),   wndb(5WN),
     wninput(5WN), groups(7WN),	morph(7WN), wngloss(7WN).

BUGS
     At	this time, no indication is  given  in	the  database  or
     search  output as to which	sense numbers are based	on seman-
     tic tag frequency	counts	and  which  are	 haphazard.   See
     wndb(5WN) for a way to determine this from	the cntlist file.

     The frequency of senses  is  based	 on  semantically  tagged



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			5






WN(1WN)		   WordNet Interface Commands		  WN(1WN)



     corpora  covering	various	domains	which are not necessarily
     balanced.	The repeated use of a rare sense in  one  passage
     my	cause that sense to have an artificially high ranking.

     The grouped noun search may be extremely slow.

     The grep searches may be very slow.

     Please report bugs	to wordnet@princeton.edu.














































WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			6



