





























































WordNet								1






WNGLOSS(7WN)		     WordNet		     WNGLOSS(7WN)



NAME
     wngloss - glossary	of terms used in WordNet system

DESCRIPTION
     The WordNet system	consists of lexicographer files, code  to
     convert these files into a	database, and search routines and
     interfaces	that display information from the database.   The
     lexicographer  files  organize  nouns, verbs, adjectives and
     adverbs into groups  of  synonyms,	 and  describe	relations
     between  synonym groups.  grind(1WN) converts the lexicogra-
     pher files	 into  a  database  that  encodes  the	relations
     between the synonym groups.  The different	interfaces to the
     WordNet database utilize a	common library of search routines
     to	display	these relations.

     ConText is	an X Windows interface	that  is  used	with  the
     WordNet  lexical  database	 and written texts.  It	is a tool
     for assisting users in hand annotating  English  prose  with
     WordNet sense tags.  ConText is not distributed.

     The Semantic Concordance consists of a group of Brown Corpus
     files  that have been semantically	tagged by hand using Con-
     Text.  Escort, an X  Windows  interface  for  searching  the
     Semantic Concordance, uses	the sense index	and taglist files
     to	find sentences with semantic  tags  to	specific  WordNet
     senses.   The  Semantic  Concordance  and Escort are distri-
     buted.

DATABASE ORGANIZATION
     Information in WordNet is organized around	logical	groupings
     called   synsets.	  Each	synset	consists  of  a	 list  of
     synonymous	words or collocations (eg. "fountain pen",  "take
     in"),  and	pointers that describe the relations between this
     synset and	other synsets.	A word or collocation may  appear
     in	 more  than  one  synset,  and	in  more than one part of
     speech.  The words	in a synset are	 logically  grouped  such
     that they are interchangeable in some context.

     Two kinds of relations are	represented by pointers:  lexical
     and  semantic.   Lexical  relations hold between word forms;
     semantic relations	hold between word meanings.  These  rela-
     tions  include  (but are not limited to) hypernymy/hyponymy,
     antonymy, entailment, and meronymy/holonymy.

     Nouns and verbs are organized into	hierarchies based on  the
     hypernymy/hyponymy	 relation  between  synsets.   Additional
     pointers may be used to indicate other relations.

     Adjectives	are arranged in	clusters containing head  synsets
     and  satellite  synsets.	Each  cluster is organized around
     antonymous	pairs  (and  occasionally  antonymous  triplets).
     The antonymous pairs (or triplets)	are indicated in the head



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			1






WNGLOSS(7WN)		     WordNet		     WNGLOSS(7WN)



     synsets of	a cluster.  Most head synsets have  one	 or  more
     satellite	synsets,  each of which	represents a concept that
     is	similar	in meaning to the concept represented by the head
     synset.  One way to think of the adjective	cluster	organiza-
     tion is to	visualize a wheel, with	a head synset as the  hub
     and satellite synsets as the spokes.  Two or more wheels are
     logically connected via antonymy, which can be thought of as
     an	axle between the wheels.

     Pertainyms	are relational adjectives and do not  follow  the
     structure	just described.	 Pertainyms do not have	antonyms;
     the synset	for a pertainym	most often contains only one word
     or	 collocation  and  a lexical pointer to	the noun that the
     adjective is "of or pertaining to".  Participial  adjectives
     have  lexical  pointers  to  the verbs that they are derived
     from.

     Adverbs are often derived	from  adjectives,  and	sometimes
     have  antonyms;  therefore	 the synset for	an adverb usually
     contains a	lexical	pointer	 to  the  adjective  that  it  is
     derived from.

     See wninput(5WN) for a list of the	pointers that are  appli-
     cable to each part	of speech.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
     In	the definitions	below word is used in place  of	 word  or
     collocation.

     part of speech	      WordNet defines "part of speech" as
			      either  noun,  verb,  adjective, or
			      adverb.	  Same	  as	syntactic
			      category.

     collocation	      A	 collocation  in  WordNet  is	a
			      string  of  two or more words, con-
			      nected by	spaces or hyphens.  Exam-
			      ples  are:  man-eating shark, blue-
			      collar,		       depend on,
			      line of products.	  In the database
			      files  spaces  are  represented  as
			      underscore () characters.

     base form		      The base form of a word or colloca-
			      tion  is	the form to which inflec-
			      tions are	added.

     synset		      A	synonym	set; a set of words  that
			      are  interchangeable  in	some con-
			      text.

     unique beginner	      A	   noun	   synset     with     no



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			2






WNGLOSS(7WN)		     WordNet		     WNGLOSS(7WN)



			      superordinate.

     basic synset	      Syntactically,  same   as	  synset.
			      Term  is	used  in  wninput(5WN) to
			      help explain differences in  enter-
			      ing synsets in lexicographer files.

     adjective cluster	      A	group of adjective  synsets  that
			      are   organized  around  antonymous
			      pairs or	triplets.   An	adjective
			      cluster  contains	 two or	more head
			      synsets which represent  antonymous
			      concepts.	 Each head synset has one
			      or more satellite	synsets.

     head synset	      Synset in	an adjective cluster con-
			      taining  at least	one word that has
			      a	direct antonym.

     satellite synset	      Synset  in  an  adjective	  cluster
			      representing   a	concept	 that  is
			      similar in meaning to  the  concept
			      represented by its head synset.

     semantic pointer	      A	 semantic  pointer  indicates	a
			      relation	 between   synsets  (word
			      meanings).

     lexical pointer	      A	lexical	pointer	indicates a rela-
			      tion between words in synsets (word
			      forms).

     cross-cluster pointer    A	semantic pointer from one  adjec-
			      tive cluster to another.

     direct antonyms	      A	pair of	words between which there
			      is  an associative bond built up by
			      co-occurrences.  In adjective clus-
			      ters,  direct antonyms appears only
			      in head synsets.

     indirect antonym	      An adjective in a	satellite  synset
			      that does	not have a direct antonym
			      has an indirect  antonyms	 via  the
			      direct antonym of	the head synset.

     hypernym		      The generic term used to	designate
			      a	   whole    class   of	 specific
			      instances.  Y is a hypernym of X if
			      X	is a (kind of) Y.

     superordinate	      Same as hypernym.



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			3






WNGLOSS(7WN)		     WordNet		     WNGLOSS(7WN)



     hyponym		      The specific term	used to	designate
			      a	 member	of a class.  X is a hypo-
			      nym of Y if X is a (kind of) Y.

     subordinate	      Same as hyponym.

     group		      Senses  deemed   similar	 by   the
			      cousin, sister or	twin relations.

     cousin		      Senses  whose   hyponyms	 bear	a
			      specific relation	to each	other.

     sister		      Matching strings that are	both  the
			      immediate	  hyponyms  of	the  same
			      superordinate.

     twin		      Synsets that have	 at  least  three
			      words in common.

     coordinate		      Coordinate  terms	 are  words  that
			      have the same hypernym.

     meronym		      The name of a constituent	part  of,
			      the  substance  of,  or a	member of
			      something.  X is a meronym of Y  if
			      X	is a part of Y.

     holonym		      The name of the whole of which  the
			      meronym names a part.  Y is a holo-
			      nym of X if X is a part of Y.

     entailment		      A	verb X entails Y if X  cannot  be
			      done  unless  Y  is,  or	has been,
			      done.

     troponym		      A	verb expressing	a specific manner
			      elaboration  of another verb.  X is
			      a	troponym of Y if to X is to Y  in
			      some manner.

     verb frame		      A	 sentence  template  illustrating
			      the usage	of a verb.

     pertainym		      A	relational adjective.  Adjectives
			      that  are	 pertainyms  are  usually
			      defined by such phrases as  "of  or
			      pertaining  to"  and  do	not  have
			      antonyms.	 A pertainym can point to
			      a	noun or	another	pertainym.

     participial adjective    An adjective that	is derived from	a
			      verb.



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			4






WNGLOSS(7WN)		     WordNet		     WNGLOSS(7WN)



     prenominal		      An adjective that	 can  occur  only
			      before the noun that it modifies.

     predicative	      An adjective that	can be used  only
			      in  predicate positions.	If X is	a
			      predicate	adjective, it can be used
			      in such phrases as "it is	X".

     postnominal	      A	postnominal adjective occurs only
			      immediately following the	noun that
			      it modifies.

     attribute		      A	noun for which adjectives express
			      values.	The  noun  weight  is  an
			      attribute, for which the adjectives
			      light and	heavy express values.

     exception list	      Morphological  transformations  for
			      words  that  are	not  regular  and
			      therefore	cannot be processed in an
			      algorithmic manner.

     semantic concordance     A	textual	corpus (Brown Corpus) and
			      a	 lexicon  (WordNet)  so	 combined
			      that every substantive word in  the
			      text  is	linked to its appropriate
			      sense in the lexicon via a semantic
			      tag.

     semantic tag	      A	pointer	from a	text  file  to	a
			      specific	sense  of  a  word in the
			      WordNet database.	 A  semantic  tag
			      in   a   semantic	  concordance  is
			      represented by a sense encoding.

     sense encoding	      Information  necessary  to  find	a
			      sense  in	 the WordNet database.	A
			      sense encoding  comprises	 a  lemma
			      field,  and codes	for the	syntactic
			      category,	   lexicographer     file
			      number, word id field, and informa-
			      tion about a satellite's head  syn-
			      set, if required.

     lemma field	      ASCII text of word as found in  the
			      WordNet database index files.

     primary key	      A	 semantic  tag	which	must   be
			      present  in a sentence in	order for
			      Escort to	retrieve the sentence.

     co-occurrence key	      A	semantic tag which is  optionally



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			5






WNGLOSS(7WN)		     WordNet		     WNGLOSS(7WN)



			      present  in a sentence along with	a
			      primary key in order for Escort  to
			      retrieve the sentence.




















































WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			6



