





























































WordNet								1






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



NAME
     noun.suffix, verb.suffix, adj.suffix, adv.suffix  -  WordNet
     lexicographer files that are input	to grind(1WN)

DESCRIPTION
     WordNet's source files are	written	by lexicographers.   They
     are the product of	a detailed relational analysis of lexical
     semantics:	a variety of lexical and semantic  relations  are
     used  to  represent  the  organization of lexical knowledge.
     Two kinds of building blocks are distinguished in the source
     files:  word  forms  and  word  meanings.	 Word  forms  are
     represented in their familiar orthography;	word meanings are
     represented  by  synonym sets (synset) - lists of synonymous
     word forms	that are interchangeable  in  some  context.  Two
     kinds  of	relations  are	recognized: lexical and	semantic.
     Lexical relations hold between word  forms;  semantic  rela-
     tions hold	between	word meanings.

     Lexicographer files correspond to the  syntactic  categories
     implemented  in  WordNet -	noun, verb, adjective and adverb.
     All of the	synsets	in a lexicographer file	are in	the  same
     syntactic	category.   Each  synset  consists  of	a list of
     synonymous	words or collocations (eg. "fountain pen",  "take
     in"),  and	pointers that describe the relations between this
     synset and	other synsets.	These relations	include	(but  are
     not  limited  to)	hypernymy/hyponymy, antonymy, entailment,
     and meronymy/holonymy.  A word or collocation may appear  in
     more than one synset, and in more than one	part of	speech.

     Adjectives	are organized into clusters containing head  syn-
     sets  and satellite synsets.  Adverbs generally point to the
     adjectives	from which they	are derived.

     See wngloss(7WN) for a glossary of	WordNet	terminology and	a
     discussion	 of  the database's content and	logical	organiza-
     tion.

  File Names
     filenames are of the form:

	  pos.suffix

     where pos is either noun, verb, adj or adv.  suffix  may  be
     used to organize groups of	synsets	into different files, for
     example noun.animal and noun.plant.  See lexnames(5WN) for	a
     list of lexicographer file	names that are used in WordNet.

  Pointers
     Pointers are used to represent  the  relations  between  the
     words   in	  one  synset  and  another.   Semantic	 pointers
     represent relations between  word	meanings,  and	therefore
     pertain  to  all  of  the	words  in  the	source and target



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			1






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



     synsets.  Lexical pointers	represent relations between  word
     forms,  and pertain only to specific words	in the source and
     target synsets.  The following  pointer  types  are  usually
     used to indicate lexical relations: antonym, pertainym, par-
     ticiple.  The remaining pointer types are generally used  to
     represent semantic	relations.

     A relation	from a source to a target synset is formed  by	a
     specifying	 a word	from the target	synset in the source syn-
     set, followed by a	pointer	 symbol	 indicating  the  pointer
     type.   The location of a pointer within a	synset defines it
     as	either lexical or semantic. Synset Syntax below	describes
     the  syntax for entering a	semantic pointer, and Word Syntax
     describes the syntax for entering a lexical pointer.

     Although there are	many pointer types, each part  of  speech
     only allows certain types of relations between synsets.

     The pointer symbols for nouns are:

	  !    Antonym
	  @    Hypernym
	  ~    Hyponym
	  #m   Member meronym
	  #s   Substance meronym
	  #p   Part meronym
	  %m   Member holonym
	  %s   Substance holonym
	  %p   Part holonym
	  =    Attribute


     The pointer symbols for verbs are:

	  !    Antonym
	  @    Hypernym
	  ~    Hyponym
	  *    Entailment
	  >    Cause
	  ^    Also see


     The pointer symbols for adjectives	are:

	  !    Antonym
	  &    Similar to
	  <    Participle of verb
	  \    Pertainym (pertains to noun)
	  =    Attribute
	  ^    Also see





WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			2






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



     The pointer symbols for adverbs are:

	  !    Antonym
	  \    Derived from adjective


     Many pointer types	are reflexive, meaning that if	a  synset
     contains  a  pointer  to  another	synset,	 the other synset
     should contain a corresponding reflexive pointer. grind(1WN)
     automatically  inserts  missing  reflexive	 pointers for the
     following pointer types:

	  Pointer	      Reflect
	  Antonym	 Antonym
	  Hyponym	 Hypernym
	  Hypernym	 Hyponym
	  Holonym	 Meronym
	  Meronym	 Holonym
	  Similar to	      Similar to
	  Attribute	 Attribute

  Verb Frames
     Each verb synset contains a list of verb frames illustrating
     the types of simple sentences in which the	verbs in the syn-
     set can be.  The verb sentence frames are entered in a  syn-
     set  as  a	 comma-separated list of integers.  The	following
     sentence templates	are the	text of	the verb frames, preceded
     by	their frame numbers:

     1	Something ----s
     2	Somebody ----s
     3	It is ----ing
     4	Something is ----ing PP
     5	Something ----s	something Adjective/Noun
     6	Something ----s	Adjective/Noun
     7	Somebody ----s Adjective
     8	Somebody ----s something
     9	Somebody ----s somebody
     10	Something ----s	somebody
     11	Something ----s	something
     12	Something ----s	to somebody
     13	Somebody ----s on something
     14	Somebody ----s somebody	something
     15	Somebody ----s something to somebody
     16	Somebody ----s something from somebody
     17	Somebody ----s somebody	with something
     18	Somebody ----s somebody	of something
     19	Somebody ----s something on somebody
     20	Somebody ----s somebody	PP
     21	Somebody ----s something PP
     22	Somebody ----s PP
     23	Somebody's (body part) ----s



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			3






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



     24	Somebody ----s somebody	to INFINITIVE
     25	Somebody ----s somebody	INFINITIVE
     26	Somebody ----s that CLAUSE
     27	Somebody ----s to somebody
     28	Somebody ----s to INFINITIVE
     29	Somebody ----s whether INFINITIVE
     30	Somebody ----s somebody	into V-ing something
     31	Somebody ----s something with something
     32	Somebody ----s INFINITIVE
     33	Somebody ----s VERB-ing
     34	It ----s that CLAUSE
     35	Something ----s	INFINITIVE

  Synset Syntax
     Synsets are entered one per line, with a newline at the end.
     A	line containing	a synset may be	as long	as necessary, but
     no	newlines can be	entered	within a synset.  Within  a  syn-
     set, spaces or tabs may be	used to	separate entities.

     The general synset	syntax is:

	  {  words  pointers  textualgloss  }

     Synsets of	this form are  valid  for  all	parts  of  speech
     except verb, and are referred to as basic synsets.	 At least
     one word is required to form a valid synset.  The other con-
     structs within a synset are optional.  Pointers entered fol-
     lowing the	words represent	semantic  relations  between  all
     the words in the source and target	synsets.

     For verbs,	the basic synset syntax	is defined as follows:

	  {  words  pointers  frames  textualgloss  }

     Adjective are organized into clusters containing one or more
     head  synsets  and	 satellite  synsets.  Clusters are of the
     form:

	  [
	  head synset
	  optional satellite synsets
	  optional additional head/satellite synsets
	       .
	       .
	       .
	  ]

     Each adjective cluster is enclosed	in square  brackets,  and
     may  have	one  or	more parts.  Each part consists	of a head
     synset and	optional satellite synsets that	are  conceptually
     similar  to  the  head synset's meaning.  Parts of	a cluster
     are  separated  by	 one  or  more	hyphens	 on  a	line   by



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			4






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



     themselves,  with	the  terminating square	bracket	following
     the synsets of the	last part.  Head  and  satellite  synsets
     follow  the  syntax of basic synsets, however a "Similar to"
     pointer must be specified in a head synset	to  each  of  its
     satellite	synsets.   Most	 adjective  clusters  contain two
     antonymous	parts.

     Synsets for relational adjectives (pertainyms) and	 partici-
     pial  adjectives  do  not	adhere	to the cluster structure.
     They use the basic	synset syntax.

     See wngloss(7WN) for a discussion of adjective clusters, and
     Special  Adjective	 Syntax	for more information on	adjective
     cluster syntax.

     Comments can be entered in	a lexicographer	file by	enclosing
     the  text of the comment in parentheses.  Note that comments
     cannot appear within a synset, as parentheses within a  syn-
     set  have	an  entirely different meaning (see Textual Gloss
     Syntax ).	However, entire	synsets	(or  adjective	clusters)
     can  be  "commented  out"	by enclosing them in parentheses.
     This is often useful for verifying	the syntax of files under
     development.

  Word Syntax
     A synset must have	at least one word, and	the  words  of	a
     synset  must  appear  after the opening brace and before any
     other synset constructs.  A word may be  entered  in  either
     the simple	word or	word/pointer syntax.

     A simple word is of the form (fields in square brackets  may
     not be present):

	  word[marker][id],

     word may be entered in any	combination of	upper  and  lower
     case  unless  it  is  in  an  adjective cluster (see Special
     Adjective Syntax ).  A collocation	is entered by joining the
     individual	 words	with  an  underscore  character.  Numbers
     (integer or real) may be entered, either by themselves or as
     part of a word string, by following the number with a double
     quote (").

     See Special Adjective Syntax for a	description of	adjective
     markers.

     word may be followed by an	integer	id from	1 to 15.  The  id
     is	 used  to  distinguish	different senses of the	same word
     within a  lexicographer  file.   The  lexicographer  assigns
     id's,  usually  in	 ascending  order.  The	default	is 0, and
     does not have to be  specified.   An  id  must  be	 used  on
     pointers  if  the	desired	 sense	has a non-zero id in it's



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			5






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



     synset specification.

     A word/pointer is of the form:

	  [  word[marker][id],	pointers  ]

     This syntax is used when one  or  more  pointers  correspond
     only  to  the  specific word in the word/pointer set, rather
     than all the words	in the synset, thus representing a  lexi-
     cal  relation. Note that a	word/pointer set appears within	a
     synset, therefore the square brackets used	to enclose it are
     different	than  those  used to define an adjective cluster.
     Only one word can be specified  in	 each  word/pointer  set,
     however any number	of pointers may	be included.

     For verbs,	the word/pointer syntax	is extended in	the  fol-
     lowing  manner  to	 allow	the  user  to specify verb frames
     which, like pointers, correspond only to  a  specific  word,
     rather  than  all	the  words  in the synset.  In this case,
     pointers are optional.

	  [  word,  pointers  frames  ]

  Pointer Syntax
     Pointers are optional in synsets.	If a pointer is	specified
     outside  of a word/pointer	construct, the pointer is applied
     to	all of the words  in  the  synset,  including  any  words
     specified	using  the word/pointer	syntax.	 This indicates	a
     semantic relation between the meanings of the words  in  the
     synsets.	If specified within a word/pointer construct, the
     pointer corresponds only to the word in  the  construct  and
     represents	a lexical relation.

     A pointer is of the form:

	  word,pointersymbol

     or:

	  word1^word2,pointersymbol

     where word	is a word in another synset.  If the second  form
     of	 a pointer is used, word1 is a word in a head synset, and
     word2 is a	word in	a satellite of that cluster.  The  synset
     containing	 word  may reside in another input file.  In this
     case, word	is preceded by the filename, and the pointer  has
     the form:

	  filename:word,pointersymbol

     or:




WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			6






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



	  filename:word1^word2,pointersymbol

     Word, word1, or word2 may be followed by an id that is  used
     to	 match	the  pointer  to the correct target synset in the
     file.  See	Pointers for a list of pointer symbols and  their
     meanings.

  Verb Frame List Syntax
     Verb frames must be entered in each verb synset.  If a  verb
     frame list	is specified outside of	a word/pointer construct,
     the verb frames in	the list apply to all of the words in the
     synset, including any words specified using the word/pointer
     syntax.  If specified within a word/pointer  construct,  the
     verb  frames  in the list correspond only to the word in the
     construct.

     A verb frame list is entered as a list of verb frame numbers
     as	follows:

	  frames: integerlist

     Where integerlist	is a comma-separated  list  of	integers,
     each  one	corresponding  a verb frame simple sentence.  See
     Verb Frames  for  a  list	of  simple  sentences  and  their
     corresponding frame numbers.

  Textual Gloss	Syntax
     An	optional textual gloss may be included in a synset.   The
     author  may  enter	 a  text string	of any length desired.	A
     textual gloss is simply a	string	enclosed  in  parentheses
     with no embedded carriage returns.	 It is used to provide an
     explanation of what the synset represents,	often to  distin-
     guish  senses of the primary (usually the first) word in the
     synset, and/or examples sentences.

  Special Adjective Syntax
     The syntax	for  representing  antonymous  adjective  synsets
     requires several additional conditions.

     The first word of a head synset must  be  entered	in  upper
     case,  and	 can  be  thought of as	the head word of the head
     synset.  The word part of a pointer from one head synset  to
     another  head  synset  within  the	 same cluster (usually an
     antonym) must also	be entered in upper case.  Usually  anto-
     nymous  adjectives	are entered using the word/pointer syntax
     described in Word Syntax to  indicate  a  lexical	relation.
     There  is no restriction on the number of parts that a clus-
     ter may have, and some clusters have three	parts, represent-
     ing antonymous triplets, such as solid, liquid, and gas.

     A cross-cluster pointer may be specified, allowing	a head or
     satellite	synset	to  point to a head synset in a	different



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			7






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



     cluster.  A cross-cluster pointer is indicated  by	 entering
     the word part of the pointer in upper case.

     An	adjective may be annotated with	a syntactic marker  indi-
     cating  a limitation on the syntactic position the	adjective
     may have in relation  to  noun  that  it  modifies.   If  so
     marked,  the marker appears between the word and its follow-
     ing comma.	 If an id is specified,	 the  marker  immediately
     follows the id.  The syntactic markers are:
	  (p)  predicate position
	  (a)  prenominal (attributive)	position
	  (ip) immediately postnominal position

EXAMPLES
     (Note that	these are hypothetical examples	not found in  the
     WordNet lexicographer files.)

     Sample noun synsets:
	  { canine, [ dog1, cat,! ] pooch, canid,@ }
	  { collie, dog1,@ (large multi-colored	dog with pointy	nose) }
	  { hound, huntingdog,	pack,#m	dog1,@ }
	  { dog, }

     Sample verb synsets:
	  { [ confuse, clarify,! frames: 1 ] blur, obscure, frames: 8, 10 }
	  { [ clarify, confuse,! ] makeclear, interpret,@ frames: 8 }
	  { interpret, construe, understand,@ frames: 8	}

     Sample adjective clusters:
	  [
	  { [ HOT, COLD,! ] lukewarm(a), TEPID,^ warm,&	(hot to	the touch) }
	  { warm, }
	  -
	  { [ COLD, HOT,! ] frigid, ICY,& freezing,& (cold to the touch) }
	  { freezing, }
	  ]

	  [
	  { [ TEPID, ICY,! ] warm,& HOT,^ }
	  { warm, HOT,&	}
	  -
	  { [ ICY, TEPID,! ] COLD,& }
	  ]

     Sample adverb synsets:
	  { [ basically, adj.all:essential^basic, ] [ essentially1, adj.all:essential, ] }
	  { pointedly, adj.all:pungent^pointed,	}
	  { [ well, adj.all:good1, ]}
	  { [ badly, adj.all:bad, well,! ] ill,	("He was badly prepared") }

SEE ALSO
     grind(1WN), filenames(5WN), wndb(5WN), wngloss(7WN).



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			8






WNINPUT(5WN)	      WordNet File Formats	     WNINPUT(5WN)



     Miller, G.	A. (1990),  ed.	  "WordNet:  An	 On-Line  Lexical
     Database".	 International Journal of Lexicography,	Volume 3,
     Number 4.




















































WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			9



