


WNWIN(1WN)	   WordNet Interface Commands	       WNWIN(1WN)



NAME
     wnwin - Microsoft Windows interface to WordNet

SYNOPSIS
     wnwin

DESCRIPTION
     Word forms	in WordNet  are	 represented  in  their	 familiar
     orthography;  word	 meanings are represented by synonym sets
     (synset) -	lists of synonymous word forms	that  are  inter-
     changeable	 in  some  context.   Two  kinds of relations are
     recognized: lexical and semantic.	 Lexical  relations  hold
     between  word  forms;  semantic  relations	hold between word
     meanings.

     Each synset consists of a list of synonymous words	or collo-
     cations  (eg.  "fountain pen", "take in"),	and pointers that
     describe the relations between this synset	 and  other  syn-
     sets.   These  relations  include	(but  are not limited to)
     hypernymy/hyponymy,      antonymy,	     entailment	      and
     meronymy/holonymy.	 A word	or collocation may appear in more
     than one synset, and in more than one part	of  speech.   The
     words  in	a synset are logically grouped such that they are
     interchangeable in	some context.  Adjectives  are	organized
     into clusters containing head synsets and satellite synsets.
     Adverbs generally point to	the adjectives	from  which  they
     are derived.

     The WordNet database is created from a set	of  lexicographer
     files  that  organize  synsets into different files based on
     part of speech and	logical	groupings.  See	wninput(5WN)  for
     a	complete description of	the lexicographer file format and
     a list of pointer types.

     wnwin provides a Microsoft	Windows	interface to the  WordNet
     database,	allowing synsets and relations to be displayed as
     formatted text.  For each word, different searches	are  pro-
     vided,  based  on	syntactic  category  and  pointer  types.
     Although only base	forms of  words	 are  usually  stored  in
     WordNet,  you may search for inflected forms.  A morphologi-
     cal process is applied to the search string  to  generate	a
     form that is present in WordNet.

     All of the	interfaces to the WordNet database use	a  common
     library of	search and morphology code.  See wnintro(3WN) for
     an	overview of the	WordNet	library.

     See wngloss(7WN) for a glossary of	WordNet	terminology and	a
     discussion	 of  the database's content and	logical	organiza-
     tion.





WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			1






WNWIN(1WN)	   WordNet Interface Commands	       WNWIN(1WN)



OPERATION
     wnwin runs	in the Microsoft Windows environment.

     Use the standard Microsoft	Windows	mouse functions	 to  open
     and  close	the wnwin window, move the window, and change its
     size.  The	standard system	menu also contains many	of  these
     functions.

     Any of the	menus or menu item can be  selected  by	 standard
     Windows key combinations; typically Alt+key where key is the
     underlined	character in the menu name.

  Searching the	Database
     To	search the WordNet database, move the cursor and click on
     the   horizontal	box  labelled  "Search Word:"  and  enter
     searchstr,	followed by a carriage return (or click	the  left
     mouse   button  on	 the  "Find"  button).	 A  single  word,
     hyphenated	word, or collocation may be entered.  A	pull-down
     menu  is highlighted corresponding	to each	part of	speech in
     the WordNet database  that	 contains  searchstr.	Hold  any
     mouse  button  on a highlighted part-of-speech menu to see	a
     pull-down menu of searches	specific to that part of  speech.
     All  of the searches available for	searchstr are highlighted
     in	the menu.  Select a search by scrolling	through	the  menu
     with  the	mouse  button pressed until the	desired	search is
     highlighted.  Then	release	the mouse button.  The search  is
     performed and the results are displayed in	the lower window.
     The status	line shows the type of search that was	selected.
     Only one search can be done at a time.

     By	default, all of	the senses found in  WordNet  that  match
     the  desired  search  are displayed.  The search may be res-
     tricted to	one or more specific senses by entering	a  comma-
     separated list of sense numbers (with no intervening spaces)
     in	the "Senses:" box.  These sense	numbers	remain in  effect
     until  either the user changes or deletes them, or	searchstr
     is	changed.  When searchstr is changed, the "Senses:" box is
     automatically cleared, defaulting back to all senses.

     If	searchstr is not present exactly  as  typed  (except  for
     case,  which is ignored), a morphological process is applied
     to	searchstr in an	 attempt  to  generate	a  form	 that  is
     present  in  WordNet.   See  morph(7WN)  for a discussion of
     WordNet's morphological processing.

     Although most searches return very	quickly,  note	that  the
     WordNet  hierarchies  can	be quite broad and deep, and some
     searches can take a long time.  Because  of  memory  limita-
     tions,  some search results may be	too large to be	retrieved
     and formatted.  If	the limitation is exceeded, wnwin reports
     this  and	asks  you  to narrow your search.  One way to get
     around this memory	limitation is to specify  the  particular



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			2






WNWIN(1WN)	   WordNet Interface Commands	       WNWIN(1WN)



     sense  you	 are  interested  in. Although this method is not
     foolproof,	it is the remedy of choice in many situations. In
     situations	 of extreme memory scarcity, wnwin may run out of
     memory, in	which case it displays a dialog	box informing the
     user of the problem, before terminating.

     wnwin displays the	standard Microsoft watch cursor	while  it
     is	searching the database and activates the "Stop"	button in
     the right hand corner of the wnwin	application  window.  The
     user  may,	 at any	time while the watch cursor is displayed,
     click on the "Stop"  button  to  prematurely  terminate  the
     search.   No  search  results  will be reported. This can be
     useful when a search appears to be	taking too long	and might
     need narrowing down.

  File menu
     The "File"	pull-down menu contains	two entries.  Select  the
     "About..."	 item  to  see	brief copyright	information about
     WordNet.  "Quit" terminates wnwin.	(Note that you	can  also
     exit  wnwin  using	 standard Windows techniques like the key
     sequence Alt+F4.)

  Edit menu
      The items	under this menu	are provided to	aid the	 transfer
     of	 WordNet search	results	to other Windows applications (in
     plain text	format).  "Copy" copies	any highlighted	text from
     the  wnwin	 display  area onto the	Windows	system clipboard.
     The user can then choose "Paste" in  most	Windows	 applica-
     tions  to transfer	the text from the clipboard to the appli-
     cation.  This can be especially convenient	if the user needs
     to	transfer the search results to a Windows word processor.

      "Paste" copies up	to one line of text from the Windows sys-
     tem  clipboard  into the searchstr	box.  This can be used to
     do	follow-up searches, by copying text from the display area
     and  then	choosing  "Paste"  to make it the next searchstr.
     Choose "Clear" to clear the searchstr box.

  Options
     This menu displays	a list of options which	are not	 directly
     associated	with WordNet searches.

     "Show Help" toggles the display of	help information that  is
     useful  in	 understanding	the search results. When on (menu
     item is checked), wnwin prints the	help information  in  the
     output buffer before the search results.

     Many WordNet synsets have a textual gloss that  is	 used  to
     provide  an  explanation  of  what	the synset represents, an
     example sentence, or both.	 The  Textual Gloss  option  con-
     trols this	display.




WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			3






WNWIN(1WN)	   WordNet Interface Commands	       WNWIN(1WN)



     In	addition to being viewed in  the  output  buffer,  search
     results may be appended to	a file.	Log Output, when checked,
     causes wnwin to append the	results	of each	search to the log
     file.  This  file	is  "wnoutput.log" in the current working
     directory.	If the environment variable  WNLOG  is	set,  the
     filename is the value of the variable, with .log appended.

     Display license allows you	to  view  the  WordNet	copyright
     notice, version number, and license.

OUTPUT
      The output of a search is	displayed  in  the  large  window
     below the status line.  If	the Log	Output option is checked,
     the output	is also	appended onto the log file.   The  output
     consists  of a sense number followed by a line with the syn-
     set that searchstr	is in, followed	by  the	 search	 results.
     Each  line	of search output is preceded by	a marker (usually
     =>), then a synset.  If a search  traverses  more	than  one
     level  of	the  tree,  then successive lines are indented by
     spaces corresponding to its level in  the	hierarchy.   When
     the  Textual Gloss	 option	 is  checked  synset  glosses are
     displayed in parentheses at the end of each synset.

     Senses are	generally ordered from most to	least  frequently
     used,  with  the  most common sense numbered 1.  Senses that
     have occurred in corpora that have	been semantically  tagged
     determine the frequency of	the senses.  Senses that have not
     occurred are presented in haphazard order.	 At this time, no
     indication	 is  given as to which sense numbers are based on
     semantic tag frequency counts and which are haphazard.

     Noun senses can be	grouped	by similarity of meaning,  rather
     than  by frequency	of use.	 With this option all senses that
     are close in meaning are displayed	together, with a line  of
     dashes indicating the end of a group.  See	groups(7WN) for	a
     discussion	how senses are grouped.

     If	a search cannot	be performed on	all senses of  searchstr,
     the search	results	are headed by a	string of the form:
	  X of Y senses	of searchstr

     When "Sample sentences for	verb  "  is  selected,  verb
     sentence  frames that are acceptable for all words	in a syn-
     set are preceded by the marker *>.	 If a frame is acceptable
     for searchstr only, it is preceded	by the marker =>.

     Search results for	adjectives are	slightly  different  from
     those  for	 other	parts  of  speech.   When an adjective is
     printed, its direct antonym, if it	has one, is also  printed
     in	 parentheses.  When searchstr is in a head synset, all of
     the head synset's satellites are also displayed.  The  posi-
     tion  of  an  adjective  in  relation  to	the  noun  may be



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			4






WNWIN(1WN)	   WordNet Interface Commands	       WNWIN(1WN)



     restricted	to the	prenominal,  postnominal  or  predicative
     position.	 Where	present,  these	restrictions are noted in
     parentheses.

     When an adjective is a participle	of  a  verb,  the  output
     indicates the verb	and displays its synset.

     When an adverb is derived from an	adjective,  the	 specific
     adjectival	sense on which it is based is indicated.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
     WNSEARCHDIR	 Directory in which the	WordNet	 database
			 has	been   installed.    Default   is
			 c:\wordnet\dict.

     WNLOG		 Log file name.

FILES
     $WNSEARCHDIR\*.idx			database index files

     $WNSEARCHDIR\*.dat			database data files

     $WNSEARCHDIR\*.exc			morphology	exception
					lists

     $WNSEARCHDIR\cousin.*		files used to group simi-
					lar senses

     $WNSEARCHDIR\vframes.txt		text  of  verb	 sentence
					frames

     wnoutput.log			default	file for  logging
					output

SEE ALSO
     wnintro(3WN),  lexnames(5WN),  senseindex(5WN),   wndb(5WN),
     wninput(5WN), groups(7WN),	morph(7WN), wngloss(7WN).

BUGS
     At	this time, no indication is  given  in	the  database  or
     search  output as to which	sense numbers are based	on seman-
     tic tag frequency	counts	and  which  are	 haphazard.   See
     wndb(5WN) for a way to determine this from	the cntlist file.

     The frequency of senses is	based on semantically tagged cor-
     pora covering various domains which are not necessarily bal-
     anced.  The repeated use of a rare	sense in one  passage  my
     cause that	sense to have an artificially high ranking.

     The grouped noun search may be extremely slow.

     The Grep for searches may be very slow.



WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			5






WNWIN(1WN)	   WordNet Interface Commands	       WNWIN(1WN)



     Please reports bugs to wordnet@princeton.edu.






















































WordNet		    Last change: 3 March 1995			6



